>> Steve: So let's do one other
thing to play around with.
It'll be like our kind of second to last
science experiment just in the land of
the JavaScript browser engine.
Let's try something else.
>> Steve: It turns out that how you scope
your JavaScript can have some important
implications into how things run.
Let’s go back to our
good friend benchmark.
I’m gonna make a little test function just
cuz there’s a lot of stuff happening.
We’ll have our test function,
all right, neat.
We’ll say like it'll take a point and
it'll add its x and its y, I don't know.
point.x + point.y,
and we'll go ahead,
make that x and y, so this.x = x.
This.y = y, very cool.
And then in this function,
we'll make a new point.
>> Steve: And we'll add the x and
y at the point.
All right, make an object,
it's got an x and y, create one of them.
We'll add them together.
>> Steve: So we'll go in here.
And we'll just say,
call that test function every time.
I don't wanna measure me
making the whole thing.
I'm just gonna run it
in the exercise part.
And not to ruin the surprise, but I'm
gonna turn this number down a little bit.
>> Steve: 800 milliseconds,
that seems like quite
a bit considering I had that
much larger iteration for
just adding 2 things, and it was 47.
I think this would go for
about eight seconds,
if I let it really go for it.
That seems unacceptable.
And it’s like weird to me, right?
How is this that much different?
I don’t know.
I’ve measured.
I know that it’s bad.
I’m just gonna move some code around.
Don’t mind me.
Let's go ahead and
put this up here, right?
I don't need to define
the class in every iteration.
>> Steve: Nine milliseconds,
[LAUGH] that's a wee bit faster.
Okay, now one would argue, well,
you are creating a class in every run.
I don't think that's what got me
from 9 milliseconds to 800, right?
It seems like there might be
something else going on here.
And so I have some suspicions.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna just try one more thing.
Remember when I was
comparing all those types?
I wanna try one other thing.
I'm gonna go ahead and
I'm gonna grab this point and
bring it back to the classes one.
I'm gonna do some science here.
I had it already, that's great.
So in the other case,
I was making one of these
inside the test function, and
the other one I had it up a scope.
I had it the same point class,
I wasn't rewriting it all the time.
So I've run this code,
I know that these are the same type.
What if I had a,
>> Steve: We'll return a new point.
>> Steve: And we'll say make a point.
>> Steve: And
we'll see if they have the same map.
>> Steve: They don't, but they were made
from the same infrastructure that worked
last time, right?
We saw it.
I'm not losing it, right?
We saw that when I used the point class
last time that they were the same.
And now I'm doing it inside this
function and they're different.
Also, it's way slower.
Like 9 milliseconds versus 800.
Any guesses?
When we make the point inside of a
function, it's not parsing, theoretically.
We are doing it every time, that is true.
But it's not the parsing
making the big difference.
We're making this class as a different
prototype chain every time, right,
which means that each one of these
points that come out of here points to
a different prototype object.
We're making a fresh point function
every time, so on and so forth.
And we can see that this little, tiny
difference in where I've put that code
clearly had dramatic effects
on how slow my code was.
9 milliseconds, 800 milliseconds, right?
Now, does this mean that during lunch
today we go through our code bases and
we look for every time I've got
a class inside another function?
No, but it does notice you open up
your web application while it's
running in production mode.
You go later and see, you run
the performance thing, you're like, wow,
that's taking a really long time, right?
Then, you begin to spelunk in there.
And at least you can have some hypotheses
about how this stuff actually works, so
that you're not just throwing
stuff at the wall, right?
I know that if I'm making stuff inside of
a function it can have a different chain,
I know if they went through different
paths to get to the same object,
that can be the problem, right?
Do not speculatively go through your
code base and do this everywhere.
But I'm like,
this is taking too long to load.
Or like I see the little
red triangle there.
Or I see that I'm pegging the CPU or
something along those lines.
Now, yes, we have some hypotheses
on what's happening here, right?
We haven't even touched
the browser land yet,
which can have a whole bunch
of other implications.
But we do know that not all
JavaScript is created equal.
And we know that how our code is
structured can have some pretty dramatic
impacts on that.
We're gonna look at one more now,
one more thing that turbofan does to you.
And the good news is it's like,
hey, it does this thing for
me and it just works out most of
the time and everything is great, right?
There's no action item for you,
which is big relief after,
I have to worry about scoping and how my
objects are made and all that kinda stuff.
So this next one'll be
a little bit more fun.
Fun is a strong word when we're
talking about JavaScript compilers.
So, yeah, but the takeaways from
the previous section, turbofan is able to
optimize your code in substantial ways
if you pass it consistent values.
So what does that really mean for us?
If you can have a function that
creates the object, rather
than you doing it by hand every time,
if you're always making a object literal,
yes, you could type the curly braces and
the properties, right?
But if you know if you're using a lot, it
might make sense to make a function that
gives you a consistent object that
was created the same way every time.
And that way,
you don't have to think about this.
Every moment you're thinking about all
the stuff that we just kinda talked about,
it's like you probably have some changes
you need to make in the architecture
of your code.
And try not to modify them after the fact.
Maybe it makes sense to make a new
object that gets created the same way.
Cuz that will have the same map as
all the other objects made that way.
But probably the real easy way to do
this is we all get really happy about
TypeScript or Flow and like,
yeah, I'm gonna do it.
And then I have to make a type and
I don't understand TypeScript or Flow and
I say to myself, you know what?
I'm just writing this in JavaScript.
It's not worth it for me, [LAUGH] right?
There are certain advantages that these
systems above avoiding runtime errors and
stuff like that, there are things to
do that the optimizer can get ready for
if you follow this code of ethics by
having the same types all the time, right?
So most of the answers here are either
measure and see what's happening and,
hopefully, you're a little bit
better at making hypotheses now.
Or, b, the point I'm gonna end
with at the end of the day is,
be great if we could just have
tools do this stuff for us, right?
That is ultimately the right answer.